# Eco_kinetic_model
Kinetic model of Escherichia coli cell growth and GlcNAc biosynthesis
MATLAB R2019a was used for kinetic modeling of cell growth, as well as for target metabolite (GlcNAc) and by-product (acetate) synthesis 61–63. The development of the kinetic model was mainly based on four kinetics, including the growth kinetic model of acetic acid-producing E. coli developed by Luli et al., Monod equation describing nutrient limitation, acetate synthesis and specific growth rate equations determined by Basan et al., and Michaelis-Menten equation describing the biosynthesis pathway of GlcNAc 61,64,65. This model mainly captures three characteristics of engineered E. coli in fermentation experiments: 1) addition of pAcF can change the specific growth rate by regulating the flux of the glycolytic pathway; 2) accumulation of acetate can inhibit both cell growth and biosynthesis of target metabolites and acetate; and 3) cell growth is also limited by the concentration of nutrients (especially nitrogen sources) in the medium. Besides, concentrations of metabolites and all parameters in the model are expressed in arbitrary units (a.u.) which is sufficient to qualitatively simulate the dynamic characteristics of metabolites and biomass. Based on these points, model construction and parameter selection were described as stated in the following sections.
First, according to the experimental results regarding the regulation of pAcF concentration on gene expression, the flux rate of glycolytic pathway (vEMP) per unit biomass per unit time was calculated as a function of the pAcF concentration (xpacf):
  v_EMP=A·ln⁡(x_pacf)+B                              (1)
 where xpacf ranged from 0.1 to 10, and vEMP ranged from 0.3 to 1 according to the experimental results of Hollinshead et al. regarding the culture test of pfkA-deficient E. coli 66. Therefore, the parameters in the kinetic model were calculated as: A = 0.152 and B = 0.65. According to the experimental results of Basan et al., as the glycolytic pathway flux rate (vEMP) gradually increases, the specific growth rate (μ) subsequently increases. Further, as the glycolytic pathway flux rate (vEMP) continues to increase, “overflow metabolism” activates the acetate synthesis pathway, and μ increases linearly with the increase of acetate synthesis rate (vace) 65. Therefore, the promotion of the glycolytic pathway flux rate (vEMP) to μ is divided into two phases, including non-acetate-producing (vEMP = 0.3 to 0.6) and acetate-producing (vEMP = 0.6 to 1) phases. The μ of the intersection of the two phases (μ0 was set to 0.76 according to the experimental data of Basan et al., 0.76 h-1, to match the further parameters of cell growth) is taken as the rate of growth in the absence of all limitations. Therefore, in the model described, “IEMP” is used as a coefficient to calculate the effect of glycolytic pathway flux rate on cell growth rate. During the non-acetate-producing phase, IEMP (0.3 to 1) increases linearly with increasing vEMP. During the acetate-producing stage, the synthesis rate of acetate (vace was ranged from 0 to 0.24 according to the experimental data of Basan et al., 0 to 0.24 g/OD600/h) increases linearly with increasing vEMP, while IEMP (IEMP was ranged from 1 to 1.6 to achieve an up to 1.6 times’ increase on μ according to the results of Basan et al.) increases linearly with increasing vace 65,67. Therefore, the relationship between IEMP and xpacf could be modeled by the following equation with parameters calculated as C = 7/3, D = -0.4, E = 1.5, and F = 0.1.
I_EMP={█(C·v_EMP+D     for〖 0.3≤v〗_EMP≤0.6@E·v_EMP+F         for〖 0.6<v〗_EMP≤1)┤                    (2)
 The acetate biosynthesis rate (vace) could be modeled by the following equation: G = 0.6, H = -0.36.
   v_ace={█(0                  for〖 0.3≤v〗_EMP≤0.6@G·v_EMP+H     for〖 0.6<v〗_EMP≤1)┤                  (3)
And the inhibition factor Iace of acetate for cell growth was calculated according to the results of Luli et al. 64:
I_ace=k_1/μ " "                                    (4)
 where k1 was calculated as a function of xace according to the results of Pinhal et al., and xace has the following dynamic:
k_1=0.76〖·0.0534〗^(x_ace )+0.1                          (5)
("d" x_ace)/"dt" =〖I_ace·v〗_ace·x_cell                             (6)
In addition to the effects of glycolytic flux rate and acetic acid accumulation, cell growth rate is also limited by nitrogen source (xN) under conditions of sufficient carbon source (glucose) in fermentation experiment. Therefore, we also set the coefficient “IN” to calculate the effects of nutrients on cell growth rate according to Monod equation:
I_N=x_N/(x_N+K_S ) " "                                  (7)
 where xN is the residual nitrogen source in the fermentation system, xN0 is the initial nitrogen source, and KS is the half-saturation constant (KS = 5, 10, 15, 20) of Monod equation (Fig. S4). In the simulated fermentation system, the nitrogen source is used for conversion into biomass and GlcNAc, the theoretical conversion rates of which are YX/N = 0.7 and YGNA/N = 0.54, respectively. Therefore, xN0 could be modeled by the following equation:
    x_N=x_N0-x_cell/Y_(X/N) -x_GNA/Y_(GNA/N)  " "                          (8)
After calculating the three parameters, IEMP, Iace, and IN, which affect cell growth rate, the biomass (xcell) has the following dynamics:
μ=I_EMP·I_ace·I_N·μ_0                           (9)
     ("d" x_cell)/"dt" =x_cell·μ                             (10)
In addition, Michaelis-Menten equation was used for qualitative simulation of GlcNAc biosynthesis. All Km values in the metabolic pathway were equal to 1, and all maximal reaction rates (vmax) were 0.24, in order to match the synthesis rate of acetate. At the same time, the biosynthesis rate (vGNA) of GlcNAc was multiplied by Iace to inhibit accumulation. Therefore, the GlcNAc concentration (xGNA) has the following dynamics:
v_GNA=I_ace·(v_GNAmax·x_GlcNAc6P)/(x_GlcNAc6P+K_m6 ) " "                      (11)
  ("d" x_GNA)/"dt" =x_cell·v_GNA                          (12)
 where vmax of YqaB per unit biomass per unit time (VGNAmax) was 0.24, and Km of YqaB (Km6) was 1. The initial parameters of the model are: initial nitrogen source xN0 = 50, initial biomass xcell0 = 0.1.
